You are leaking thousands of dollars
every single month if you do not have
these four automated abandonment email
flows live. These are the site
abandoned, browse abandoned, cart
abandoned, and checkout abandoned email
flows. To just map this out for you, a
recent study showed that seven out of 10
of e-commerce carts are abandoned. And
cart abandoned is just one of the four
abandonment types that we're going to be
going over in this video in creating
systems for recovery. I'm going to break
down the exact strategies and email
templates that are working today.
Exactly how to set up these flows and
the best AB tests that you should run to
optimize these over time. Step zero is
getting your email sending provider set
up and making sure that you have these
metrics firing. Hopefully, you have an
email sending provider already and
hopefully it's Clavio. That's what I'm
going to be going over in this video,
but this will apply for any email
sending provider, specifically for
e-commerce brands. I'm going to assume
you already have a platform and we're
just going to go over metrics and making
sure these metrics are properly firing.
The first one that we need is active
onsite. That's the lowest in the funnel.
And this is for anybody who goes to your
website. So the second I load up Nike's
website right here. And I have a Claio
profile, that's going to fire the active
on site trigger. And you can check to
see if you have this in Claio just by
heading over to metrics. And then the
trigger that we want is active on site
right here. If you click on it, you can
see if it is being tracked. If it's not,
then you have some issues. But right
here, we can see we have around like 200
or so people who are firing this every
single day. So we're all good to go
there. That's going to be the trigger
for the side abandoned flow. The next in
the funnel is going to be viewed
product. So right now I haven't clicked
on anything. But the second I actually
look at a product page and I click right
here. This is going to fire the viewed
product trigger. You want to make sure
you have this by just looking up viewed
product right here. And if you click on
we can see that this is being tracked.
So we're all good. This is going to fire
the browse abandoned flow if I were to
look at this product and then close out
of the website right now. Next up and
what 80% of brands I audit don't have is
added to cart. So, what fires added to
cart is if I actually click this right
here, this add to bag button. And then
right here, this is in my cart. And
that's what's going to fire this trigger
right here. You can see there are two
here. They're a little bit different.
This is through Claio and this one is
through Shopify. You can see this one
isn't working. If you don't see this
added to cart Shopify trigger loaded up,
then just disable your Claio Shopify
integration, then reenable it, and it
should show up. And right here, we can
see what this is tracking. Again, 80% of
the brands I audit don't have a flow for
added to cart. They only have it for the
next one in the funnel, which is
checkout started. Most brands have a
checkout abandoned flow, which is going
to fire if I go to my cart and then
actually click checkout. So, if I click
checkout right here, we're taken into
the checkout page. We can just go guest
checkout. And right here is what fires
the checkout started trigger, which if
we look up, let me make sure I spell it
correctly. That's going to be this one
right here. And most brands just have a
flow for checkout started, but they
don't have it for added to cart. So, we
want to make sure that we're doing both
because checkout started is farther down
the funnel. but we want to make sure
we're tracking. If any of these triggers
aren't working for you, just look up a
Clavio support article and it should
help you out. If not, you can reach out
to their support team. You don't need to
be a technical genius. Trust me. You can
also book a call with me in the
description if you're an e-commerce
brand and I'll help you out. So, now
that we have set up, let's actually talk
about the email flows. The email flows
one and two that we're going to talk
about, which are the most important are
abandoned cart and abandoned checkout.
Especially make sure you have cart
abandoned properly set up. I keep saying
it because it is such a big problem. Not
a lot of brands have cart abandoned
setup. It's a huge opportunity to
recover revenue. So, what I'm going to
do is I'm going to go over the strategy
and the sequence of emails that we like
to send and have found to be optimal for
our over 100 different e-commerce
partners we work with right now. So, to
get the most bang for our buck, we're
going to be sending four emails for each
of them. We don't just want to send one
or two emails. We want to make sure we
have multiple follow-ups cuz people
forget or maybe they don't get their
paycheck until Friday and they're
waiting to buy something. Or maybe
they're going to different customer
websites adding a few items to cart and
waiting to make a decision. Either way,
the more reminders the better. So right
here I have two simple diagrams just of
a mock abandoned cart and abandoned
checkout flow strategy just to save time
because I know you're probably busy. You
can have the same flows for abandoned
cart and abandoned checkout. They can be
the same content but different triggers.
Obviously we want them to be different
but to keep things simple we can have
them be the same. And so what we see
here we're just going to wait 30 minutes
to fire that first email. We don't want
to wait too long. We want to get that
impulse purchase to have email one where
we just do a simple reminder. We have a
dynamic clavio block to show exactly
what the person left behind and then
give some brief product information.
That's all you need. You don't need to
go too crazy. And then we're going to
follow up with daily emails. You could
change these to kind of two days, but I
found that people need daily reminders
and it's just what converts better.
Email two, we like to do a textbased
personal reminder. So, we've tried to
hit them with just showing the product.
Now, we need kind of an emotional appeal
and then a little bit of a social proof
appeal. I found that a founder
personally reaching out to get somebody
to buy is way more impactful. And not a
lot of people do this. this strategy
that I found it's starting to get a lot
of popularity. And then email three and
four is where we have discounts. We're
opening up a discount. Try to get
somebody over the edge to purchase. They
are so close to buying. They just need a
little ump. A lot of people will do
discounts right off the bat. But I don't
like to do that. I like to try to get
the sale by saving margins first and
then if we can't get them with a couple
reminders, then we'll try to get the
discount. So again, just a simple email
with a discount opener dynamic clio
block and then plug in some social proof
or frequently asked questions. Then
we're going to follow it up again with a
textbased last chance having a lot of
urgency in offering some support as
well. This is most bang for your buck.
I've tested this on 8 figure brands,
seven figure brands, and this is the
winning strategy for 2025. Here we have
just a different way to look at that
graphic with a couple different examples
for email one. Again, you can see how
simple this is. Just a simple reminder,
almost there, one click away. Show the
dynamic item that the person left behind
or the different items. We have a button
up here and then some brief product
information on the bottom. What's so
good about our chocolate bars? If this
person added to cart, they already have
a base understanding. That's why we're
not going too much in depth. Just kind
of reminding them about what we stand
for. And then email two, this textbased
reminder. You can see, hey, I hope you
are well and keeping in good health.
This coming from a team member on the
team just works so well. And it looks
like it's a friend reaching out to you,
which is why it works so well. You can
see a simple button right here removing
all friction for the buyer. Then mixing
in some social proof about how we're
verified by 40 patents. We have 26
research studies, yada yada yada. And
then again, giving off that warm feel.
This prints. So try this out if you
don't already. Then email three, this is
where we're going to do the discount.
We're just going to keep it really
simple. Hey, here's your discount.
Here's the discount code. Claim your
exclusive deal. You can see the button
high up in the email so the customer
doesn't need to scroll. Which then leads
us to the Clavio dynamic block. And then
putting in some social proof and risk
reversals right here. And then answering
some frequently asked questions. This
frequently asked question block goes a
long ways. So I highly recommend you do
that. And then email for just a
textbased sort of last chance on the
discount. Make it personal. Offer
support. If you want to make it
important, put it in the PS section
because everybody reads a PS section.
But again, you can see how simple all
these emails here are. Don't need to
over complicate this. People are so
close to buying, they just need a little
nudge. So, let's actually build this
inside of Clavia. So, what I like to do
when I'm building these abandonment
flows since we're going to have dynamic
content, I like to start with Clavio
templates. So, let's do the cart
abandoned flow first. I'm going to
search for the correct flow here. We
actually want it to be the Shopify added
to cart trigger, that newer one right
here. This is the template that we want
to do. Click onto this. It's going to
give us just this quick little template.
Let's go in and start building the flow.
We can see right here it has our trigger
all set up. It even has these filters.
So, if somebody goes to checkout or they
place an order or they've been in the
flow in the last 7 days, they're not
going to receive this flow. So, these
are the correct filters that we want.
And what they did here is wait 4 hours.
I'm going to change that as we went
over. We want this to be 30 minutes. And
I'm going to delete the SMS just for
this video. So, we have abandoned cart
email one. And then we have this one
right here. Time delay. We're going to
change this to one day. So boom, here's
email one. We have the subject line,
forgetting something, then preview text
right here. You don't need to overthink
your subject lines and preview text.
Just do what you think makes sense. And
then you can test from there. So we can
do forgetting something and then preview
text like you're one click away. And I
find that dot dot dot works really well
for getting opens. So to edit the email,
we just want to go into template right
here. And what we really are looking for
is this dynamic Clavio block. This is
why we use this Clavio template because
it's already going to load up with the
correct sort of variables that you need
to dynamically load in what that person
left behind. And you can still go in and
edit the size of this however you want
it to look. Edit the fonts. Essentially,
what this is doing is it's going to show
the person's product on the left and
then the information on the right. So,
if you want to keep things simple, you
can edit text right inside of Claio like
forgetting something.
You can drag in an image to put your
logo up at the top here. We have this.
We have a Clavio button and it has the
dynamic link which will take somebody to
the cart which is perfect. Now, if you
wanted to be more advanced, you can
upload images designing your emails
inside of Figma right here. So, you can
see here like this example for Aloe. If
I wanted to remove this and then just
have a section up at the top of our
email that just says forgetting
something, I could do something like
this. Use this slice tool to slice this
email. Export this image just like
this. Exported. Go back here. Upload
this
image. And then boom, right here we have
this section. We could get rid of this
if we wanted. Get rid of this copy and
just have this dynamic section. And then
we could go in, grab images of like the
rest, whatever we wanted to do in this
email. If we look at this other example
like we had before, we would upload the
image of this, this, and then this in
the footer. So get creative, mess
around, use some stuff in Clavio and
also mix in some stuff in Figma if you
want. And then for the textbased emails,
we wait one day here. So all that we
want to do if we want to make this email
textbased like we have for our second
email here, just like this, we go into
Clavio.
What we want to do is change template
right here. And then we just go right
here and then we change change template.
And then we want text only just like
this. And if we click on then this is
going to load just this plain text and
you can put in your copy right here. I'm
going to have a video in the description
with all the links that you need to have
a shop button where you say shop
now. And if you want a link to the
actually to the actual dynamic cart of
this person, which in this case is going
to be this, and then it'll dynamically
take the person to their cart. Again,
it'll be in the description for you. And
then for the rest of the flow, we can
just duplicate our time delays and add
in the third emails, third and fourth
emails, and create them just like we did
these others, but create our discount
code inside of Shopify and just insert
that into the copy of our emails. It's
that simple. So, that's the abandoned
cart flow. Let's talk about the checkout
abandoned flow. Now, again, we're going
to go off of a template. Claio confuses
everybody with the cart versus checkout
abandoned. The checkout abandon is
actually this one right here. Abandoned
cart reminder and standard. I know it's
kind of confusing, but this is actually
checkout abandoned. If you click in, you
can see the trigger is checkout started,
which is what we want for abandoned
checkout. So, I'm going to label this as
abandoned checkout. And if we click on
then inside it looks the exact same as
that cart abandoned one but we can see
the trigger is actually checkout started
and then the filter will just stop
people from those who place order from
receiving this flow or have been in this
in the past 7 days. This is perfect. So
again right here we'd want to change
this to a 30 minute
delay. Get rid of the SMS and then edit
the emails just like we did for
abandoned card. Again edit it the same
way. What's super key to know though is
that the dynamic content for abandoned
checkout and abandoned cart are
different. So that's why we use these
Clavio templates. It'll automatically
come in with the correct dynamic
content. And you can actually see by
going to preview and test if the dynamic
content is loading and what exactly it
looks like for users. And if any of that
isn't working, reach out to Claio
support. They'll give you the correct
ones. So just copy the emails that you
did for abandoned cart right here.
Follow this flow and you are all set.
Those are the two most important ones.
The card abandon and the checkout
abandon. Now, let's talk about the
browse abandoned flow. Again, as a
reminder, this for anybody who views a
product, but they don't purchase. They
just get up and leave. Here's the flow
strategy right here. It's very similar
to cart and checkout abandon. Almost the
exact same, but focusing a little bit
more on why the person came. So, if you
look at email one, we're actually
waiting 1 hour this time. I found that
to be the optimal time. Give some people
some time to check out other things and
then remind them of the first item they
checked out 1 hour later. dynamic clavio
block gives some social proof and
instead of carton checkout abandon where
we're just showing that product, we want
to show other products because maybe a
person didn't find exactly what they
wanted. We then follow that up one day
later answering FAQs and having a simple
reminder and then we enter with the
discount and then that textbased
personal reminder also educating on the
brand. So if we look at these examples,
you can see them here. Did something
catch your eye? So changing the copy to
be along the lines of, hey, you viewed
this product, do you want it? and then
mixing in different social proof, but
mostly mixing in other products. So, you
can see right here these different
products just in case somebody wants to
shop for something else. We then follow
that up with just a simple reminder
being like, "Hey, take another look."
And then giving some more brand
information and FAQs that might get
somebody further down the funnel. Follow
that up with that discount, adjusting
the copy about still thinking about it.
Here's this discount. Show the dynamic
section. And then also show other
products cuz now this person has a
discount. Maybe they still want to shop
other products. So, let's show that to
them. And then following it up again
with that text base, just personal.
Really hit home on being personal.
Educate on the brand a bit and give that
discount. Perfect execution right here.
So inside of Clavio, let's do the same
thing where we create a flow. And you
can see right here, browse abandoned. If
you want to look it up, just look up
browse abandon right here. You can just
use this standard one, browse
abandonment. You can see the trigger is
this little gear, viewed product. Use
this template. And once we go inside, we
can see viewed product. And they already
have the profile filters here. But we
actually also need to add the added to
cart. So we want to make sure that
anybody who adds to cart isn't receiving
this flow. So we want to change this to
cart right here and make it added to
cart zero times. And we're going to say
in the last 24 hours just to be safe.
Just like that. We're going to change
this time delay then to 1 hour. And just
like we did for cart abandoned checkout
abandon, we're going to upload and put
in our browse abandon emails. So if we
go in and edit, you can see again since
this is a Claio template, it already has
this dynamic section loaded in. We can
see the copy right here. Everything that
you need is right here. You can go off
these templates that I've given you, but
you just go in and you can see we also
have a product section right here. So
Clavia has an awesome feature where you
can insert products right here. Drag
this in and you could do whatever you
want. You could do dynamic and just show
best sellers like right here and it'll
choose some of your best sellers to show
the customer. or you can do static and
pick out what exact products you want.
And that's what we're going to be doing
in a couple of these emails and browse
abandon. So, you need to know how to do
that. And if we just go in and preview,
then we can see our products and the
recommended items here. Now, this isn't
optimized at all. These are optimized
emails. If you want to learn how to do
email design, I have other videos on my
channel. But just having these emails in
place are what are going to be the main
revenue drivers for you. So, just like
before, we can just drag and drop our
different time
delays and just build out our different
emails. And this is going to recover
sales from people who look at items,
don't add to cart or checkout, and then
leave. The last flow we want to talk
about is the website abandon flow.
Anybody who goes to your website, but
they don't view any products, they don't
add any items to cart, and they don't go
to checkout. Here's the simple strategy
that we do. Just two emails is perfect.
We want to wait 4 hours because these
people are a lot lower intent. We want
to see if waiting a little bit can get
them to actually find a product that
they want. Or maybe their day has calmed
down and they're open to start
scrolling. So, we wait four hours. All
we want to do is encourage browsing,
show off some of our products, and offer
support. We just want to get these
people onto the website. And then a day
later, you can see kind of a theme here
with the personal reminders, doing a
textbased email, educate a little bit on
our brand uniqueness, and try to point
the customer in the right direction
because the goal of this is just to get
them back on the website to browsing. So
if we look at these examples right here,
email one is just encourage browsing.
You can say, "We noticed you stopped by.
Did you get a chance to check these out?
They're selling fast." So pushing people
to shop by the different category and
then showing off some of our products
right here so that a person doesn't need
to go to the website to actually view
these products. So you have these and
then offer support just down here. Do
you have any questions or concerns?
There's the link to the help center or
also give your email that people can
reach out to. Perfect execution. Nice
and simple. And then email two, just
waiting one day later having a personal
reminder. address how our brand is
unique by saying like, you know, we have
over 200 styles you can choose from and
try to point them in the right direction
with checking out our best sellers or if
you got a new iPhone 16, you can shop
these and just be friendly and try to
make it seem like a friend is reaching
out. That's the strategy. Nice and
simple. So, inside of Claio, we can
create a flow. And for this flow, we
actually don't have any templates inside
of Clavio. And we don't need to cuz
there isn't any dynamic sections here
cuz nobody checked out a specific
product and we need to show that. We're
just showing general products. So we can
just go to create flow up here and then
build our own. So we go to build our own
we can change this to site abandon and
then create it manually. And right here
for the trigger just like before we want
to do the active on site. So I'm just
going to go off metric right here. And
active on site is right here. Profile
filters. I'll have this in the doc in
the description. But very similar to the
other ones, we want to talk about
somebody has viewed product zero times
cuz then they would get the browse
abandoned flow since starting this flow.
We also want to make sure it's cart
abandoned as well. If anybody adds to
cart, we don't want to have them. And
then also somebody hasn't gone to
checkout right here since starting this
flow. And then also placed order.
Somebody placed an order. We don't want
them to receive this. placed
order zero times since starting this
flow. And then also we want to do has
not been in this flow. You could do
anything from 7 to 30 days. I just like
to do 30 days. And then boom, we're all
set there. Confirm our trigger. And then
just like before, we're going to drag in
our time delay right here to 4 hours.
And then we are going to just drag and
drop our emails and create our emails.
Drag this one. Do a time delay right
here between the second email, which is
going to be textbased. So this is going
to be the textbased one and then this is
going to be the graphic one which you
can design inside of Figma similar to
one here or you can just build for
simplicity right inside of Clavio. And
that is the site abandon flow. All
right, so those are the four
money-making abandonment flows that you
want to have set up. These are the
quickest, most concise emails that are
going to get you the most bang for your
buck. You can get more advanced and
having like eight to 10 email flows, but
that's really not necessary unless
you're doing millions of dollars a
month. Since we only have so few emails,
we want to make sure that these are
optimized. So you need to make sure that
you're running AB tests over time so
that you can continue to convert people
who were abandoning your products. So
these are the five highest levers AB
tests that you should be running. The
first one is the time delay until that
first email. So for abandoned cart and
checkout we had a 30 minute time delay
as we went over in that template, but
for some brands a 4-hour time delay is
better. For others, a 2hour, for some a
10-minute time delay is the best. It
really just depends brand to brand.
Waiting 30 minutes is typically the
best, but it really does vary. and I've
seen it go a wide range. So to A to B
test the time delay, you have to kind of
do a workaround here. So all that you
want to do is you want to add a
conditional split right here. And what
you can do with this split is do a
random sample and then we can do a 50/50
random sample and then we'll have the 30
minute time delay on this side and then
we could have, you know, a 2-hour time
delay on the other. So what I would do
is I would clone this, drag it here, and
then change it to 60 minutes. And then
we want everything else to be the same.
So, we would duplicate this over, drag
it in, and then move this stuff over as
well. This 20 hours, so I'd change that
to just one day. And then boom, we could
just turn this on. And you just compare
the numbers over time. If you click show
analytics, it'll show you the numbers on
these. You could just look over time
what the 30 minute delay is doing in
terms of revenue right here, and what
the 1 hour is doing. It depends on how
much traffic this flow is getting for
how long you need to run a lot of these
tests. If you're getting millions of
visitors every single day, then probably
a test is only going to need to be run
for one day. But if you're only getting
a couple hundred people a month or a
couple thousand people, it may take some
more time for these tests to actually
get you conclusive results. Go off feel.
If you see one starting to perform
better, then just go with that one and
make that time delay the standard. The
second highest level AB test is your
subject lines and preview texts. This is
up there at number two, just because
it's very easy to do and think of
different subject lines and preview
text. You don't need to change any of
the content of your emails. You just got
to change some of the text. You can test
subject lines that are more browsebased
where it's like, "Hey, did you forget
something?" Or you could be more
aggressive where you're like, "Finish
your order today or you're one click
away." Test doing those more browse
based things versus more aggressive. You
can test using emojis or not using
emojis. Just test test. It's going to be
different for everybody. The third
highest lever AB test is doing the
graphic based emails, which I showed
you, versus doing textbased emails,
which I showed you. Sometimes those
personal based emails absolutely crush
it and you could just have flows with
that. and other times you do need a
little bit more graphics and people need
to see kind of the product in action in
order to convert. Test those against
each other. Four is social proof versus
informational content. Some products
just need more information for people to
buy and others they just want to see how
other people are liking the product.
With a product that's very intricate,
then maybe education on how that product
works is probably a better use of space
in your emails. But for others, if it's
pretty simple and they just want to know
if the product works, then maybe just
showing those testimonials is the better
way to go. Just test it out, see what
works. And then five, the next highest
lever is adding more emails. Usually
when you add more emails, you make more
money. But you can test that out and
look at some of the numbers. Again, it's
just test test test. When I'm setting up
AB test for one of my 100 clients, seven
to eight figure e-commerce brands, these
are the ones that I'm starting out with.
Now, if you are a brand that's doing at
least $50,000 a month, and you want help
with all these flows, or your brand
isn't generating at least 30% of revenue
from email, you're leaving money on the
table. You can build this all yourself
with everything that I showed you. Or
you can book a strategy call with me
with the link in the description, and
then I'll help map that all out for you.
That does it for this video. Let me know
if you have any questions. I know we
move pretty fast here, but I wanted to
try to keep this as quick as possible.
This could be a 4-hour long video, but
I'm trying to condense it to more like
30 minutes. So, of course, let me know
if you have any questions and I'll get
to it. Subscribe to my newsletter, inbox
newswsletter.com/subscribe. Get a 75page
guide on email marketing. And of course,
be on the lookout for more videos.
Appreciate you taking the time to watch
this. I hope you have a good one. Aas.